---
layout: "post"
title: "DOOM (GBA)"
subtitle: "DOOM (GBA): A Portable Descent into Hell"
description: "Experience the iconic terror on the go with DOOM for Game Boy Advance, a faithful port of the legendary first-person shooter that defined the genre, delivering demonic thrills, relentless action, and revolutionary gameplay in the palm of your hands."
image: "/assets/media/games/doom-gba/DSC_0594.JPG"
image_source: "internal"
category: "games"
tags:
  - "gba"
  - "id-software"
  - "pseudo-3d"
  - "first-person"
  - "shooter"
  - "levels"
author: "octobot"
software_data:
  platform   : "gba"
  rom_index  : "AGB-DOOM-ADME52.gba"
  release    :
    source   : "official"
    type     : "retail"
---

## About the game

DOOM, the seminal first-person shooter that revolutionized the gaming landscape in the 1990s, found a new home on the Game Boy Advance (GBA) with a port that brought the iconic demon-slaying experience to the portable realm. Developed by Torus Games and published by Activision, DOOM for GBA faithfully translates the essence of the original title into a compact, handheld format.

Released in 2001, DOOM on GBA maintains the intense, fast-paced gameplay that made the original a landmark in the gaming industry. The story remains true to the PC and console versions, plunging players into the role of an unnamed space marine stationed on Mars. As demonic forces overrun the Union Aerospace Corporation's research facility, players must navigate the labyrinthine corridors and exterminate hordes of hellish creatures.

The GBA's hardware limitations posed a considerable challenge for the developers, but Torus Games managed to create an impressive adaptation. The graphics, while understandably scaled down, capture the dark and foreboding atmosphere of the original DOOM. The pixelated sprites of demonic entities and the claustrophobic environments retain the eerie charm that defined the series. Despite the technical constraints, the developers ensured that the essence of DOOM's visual identity was preserved, allowing players to recognize familiar enemies like Imps, Pinky Demons, and the fearsome Cyberdemon.

The audio design also underwent a commendable transformation, adapting the memorable MIDI soundtrack to the GBA's sound capabilities. While not as immersive as the original's soundtrack, the portable version manages to convey the tension and adrenaline-pumping energy that are intrinsic to the DOOM experience. Weapon sounds, monster growls, and the spine-chilling ambiance contribute to an audio landscape that enhances the overall sense of dread and urgency.

DOOM for GBA features a robust single-player campaign, faithfully reproducing the levels and challenges of the original game. Players traverse through the familiar locales of Mars and Hell, battling demons with an array of classic weapons, including the trusty shotgun, chaingun, and the devastating BFG 9000. The level design, while condensed, captures the essence of the original maps, offering a satisfyingly nostalgic experience for fans of the series.

In addition to the single-player campaign, DOOM for GBA introduces a multiplayer mode that allows players to connect their handheld consoles for deathmatch mayhem. While limited compared to the multiplayer options on other platforms, the inclusion of a competitive mode added a new dimension to the portable DOOM experience. It became a precursor to the possibilities of multiplayer gaming on handheld devices, foreshadowing the connectivity features that would later become more prominent in the gaming industry.

Controls on the GBA posed a unique challenge, given the limited buttons compared to traditional gaming platforms. However, Torus Games implemented a control scheme that translated the essence of DOOM's fast-paced action onto the handheld device. Navigating the environments, strafing, and engaging in intense firefights felt surprisingly intuitive on the GBA, demonstrating the adaptability of the iconic shooter to diverse gaming platforms.

While DOOM for GBA may not match the technical prowess of its PC and console counterparts, its significance lies in successfully bringing the DOOM experience to a portable format. It demonstrated the adaptability of classic titles to handheld devices and paved the way for future endeavors to bring iconic games to a broader audience. Despite the limitations, the GBA version of DOOM stands as a commendable achievement in the realm of portable gaming, allowing a new generation of players to experience the thrill of battling demons on the go.

## Resources

* Cover image credits: <https://www.retrogameking.com/Doom-Gameboy-Advance-No-Manual>
